[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you today the row over
football's breakaway european super
league continues boris johnson says
he'll show the plans
a straight red chairman of the new
league speaks for the very first time
real madrid florentino perez says it
could save football
but there is so much anger amongst fans
pundits and now players are speaking out
too
i can only give my personal opinion and
i don't like it one bit and hopefully it
doesn't happen
the jury goes out to consider its
verdict in the trial of derek chovin the
former police officer accused of
murdering george floyd
in the american city of minneapolis
india is added to the uk's red list most
travel from the country will be banned
from
friday because of fears over a new
variant
of coronavirus good morning the biggest
drop in car insurance costs in half a
decade
motorists are paying 87 pounds less a
year
i'll find out how long the savings might
last
good morning from odds farm park which
is in buckinghamshire we're going to
meet some lambs and chat to the kids
later on but it is a chilly start
wherever you are this morning
many of us having a dry day with some
sunshine but there is some rain
in northern ireland and scotland i'll
have all the details
in about 10 minutes
[Music]
big morning to tuesday the 20th of april
our main story boris johnson will meet
football fans and officials today as the
backlash over plans for a new
super league intensifies the prime
minister stepped in after supporters
pundits and players joined growing calls
to stop this breakaway competition
the premier league so-called big six
have signed up to the league and 14 more
clubs will meet today
to consider their response joe linsky
has more
if the european super league is an
attack on the game then
football and society have gone on the
counter
this was ellen road last night where
leeds united supporters
showed what they thought they joined the
voices around the country
who've condemned the plans the prime
minister the opposition leader and
european politicians
all say it would damage the sport and
the president of uefa who governed
football in europe
said this this idea is a spit
in the face of all football lovers
and our society as well so we will not
allow them to take it away from us
on twitter the duke of cambridge writing
in his role as fa
president said we must protect the
entire football community
and that he shares the fans concerns the
words now are on the pitch
too this was leeds goalkeeper last night
wearing a t-shirt with a champions
league logo
and earn it the 12 super league clubs
want a midweek competition
that's a closed shop no one would be
relegated
but even those who represent them don't
support it
i can only give my personal opinion and
i don't like it one bit and hopefully it
doesn't happen
we are here we are the faces of the club
and we arrived here today and the lead
supporters were shouting at us we had a
bargain in the
city and the people were shouting at us
as if we
would have made a decision and we didn't
it's the premier league's big six clubs
looking to break away
today the other 14 will meet to go
through the plans
and the government's launching a fan-led
review into football itself
these six clubs announce this decision
without any consultation with football
authorities or with government
worst of all they did it without any
dialogue whatsoever
with their own fans we will do whatever
it takes
to protect our national game so i'm
absolutely appalled
at the fact that football has gone this
far into the hands of greedy owners
i am obviously a burnley fan we are so
small our budgets depend on people like
the top six staying in the premier
league and for them to just treat it
like their own personal
company is absolutely disgusting it's
just going to ruin everyone's dream
everyone's game and it's
it's just ridiculous when the stock
exchange opened yesterday
man united's share price grew by nearly
10 percent
but now the anger from supporters is
rising too
some say this is a plan to break up
football but the people in the game
are standing firm joe linski bbc news
and it was really interesting watching
yesterday wasn't it because the
criticism
just keeps coming and sally there's been
sort of developments overnight as well
and the other thing that i think has
been missing is perhaps
owners chairman of football clubs in
this country who are involved in it
coming out to talk about it
silence just no one wants to speak about
it
well apart from one person yeah there's
been a huge backlash
and they're obviously powerful figures
in the game though who are convinced
this is the right
way to go none more so than real
madrid's president
and the chairman of the newly formed
european super league florentino
perez he has been talking about the
motivations behind the breakaway
competition and insists that
rather than destroying the game as many
critics fear he says
it's going to save it here's what he had
to say
we don't have the money apart from tv
rights so the only way to make football
profitable
is to make more competitive teams that
are more attractive to fans
of the biggest clubs from all over the
world
so we came to the conclusion that if
instead of doing the champions league
between
seasons we'll do a super league of the
biggest clubs
we'll be able to recover some of the
income we've lost
that was a really interesting interview
he went on to say of course we've heard
from uefa there's a possibility that
english clubs in the champions league
europa league could be banned from
playing he said that simply
will not happen do not worry this is not
true players will not be banned from
international matches
that of course is just his opinion one
of the things
that came out from that interview is of
course i think what they're trying to do
is encourage
he says younger football fans so younger
football fans want a different
tournament they want to see the biggest
teams
playing on the biggest stage more
regularly and that is something that is
really up for debate isn't it because
i'm not entirely sure that's true
another thing they said that that really
annoyed i think what a few football fans
yesterday they referred to sort of two
types of fans didn't they they said the
legacy fans sort of traditional
fans they've had before and those
they're trying to catch in the future
yeah just think that it's an it's it's
not like sal that
football has always fans have felt
disenfranchised for a long time
and felt distance from their club for a
long time but this did feel like a
different step didn't it it's even worse
isn't it it's even worse than
paying a really high price for the kit
not being able to afford a season ticket
not being able to afford simply or even
get a ticket for a game that you want to
go to
which i think has is so difficult for
fans this is another step on isn't it
well
we will be speaking to uh former england
captain alan shearer about this
a little bit later in the program that's
around 7 30 so it will be interesting to
see
what he thinks about all of this i think
i already know
i can guess i think he's got to be quite
strong and in terms of sanctions i
probably think he'd probably go
quite fast it's just basically sport
isn't it you know whatever sport you
compete in
if you can't lose it's not sport it's
not sport it's not a competition
that's kind of the point yeah right see
you a little bit later thank you sam
thank you
um in other news india has been added to
the government's red list for travel
meaning that from 4am on friday british
and irish citizens arriving
into the uk will have to quarantine in a
designated hotel
and non-residents will be banned from
entering the country entirely it comes
after more than 100 cases of the indian
variant were identified here in the uk
our transport correspondent caroline
davis has more
delhi is going into lockdown cases are
rising across
india and there's a growing concern
about the so-called indian variant of
the coronavirus
while it's under investigation the uk
government has taken a new step
we've made the difficult but vital
decision to add india to the red list
this means anyone who is not a uk or
irish resident or a british citizen
cannot enter the uk if they've been in
india
in the previous 10 days uk and irish
residents and british citizens who've
been in india in the past 10 days before
their arrival
will need to complete hotel quarantine
for 10 days from the time of arrival
the rules will come in from four a.m on
friday morning
it's less than four months since india
banned flights from the uk
trying to contain the uk variant with
this virus
dynamics between countries can change
quickly
when flights restarted india's
government restricted them to 30 a week
between the two countries
and seats back to the uk before friday
already in short supply
vik and his family are currently in
ghaziabad on the outskirts of delhi
i immediately look into the flights so a
i couldn't get any flights
back home b i have to quarantine with a
small child now that is my another body
see it is ridiculously expensive to be
in a hotel quarantine for 10 days
but the variant here in india is
worrying
people have started panicking about it
there is a sense of panic around
international travel from england could
still restart to some countries from the
17th of may
but this announcement shows it will be a
while until the world is open
as the list of countries designated red
gets longer
not shorter caroline davis bbc news
a travel bumble launched yesterday
between australia and new zealand could
be in jeopardy already a border work at
new zealand's auckland airport is said
to have tested positive for coronavirus
prime minister jacinda aderne said the
country's health authorities were
liaising with their australian
counterparts
a jury in minneapolis has adjourned
after spending four hours considering
its verdict in the trial of derek
chauvin the former u.s
police officer who's charged with
murdering george floyd
the defense says mr shervin correctly
followed police training but the
prosecutions say his actions were
disproportionate
and deliberate our correspondent leibou
deseco joins us now
from minneapolis uh thank you very much
for being with us on the programme so
i i know we don't know exactly when
we're going to hear the verdict but
there's so much attention on this case
absolutely i mean i heard one local
journalist
here on local tv saying that anyone who
claims to know or have any idea how long
this
might take is really just making things
up at this stage because it could take
anywhere
between you know a few hours tomorrow or
several days the jury has already
deliberated for a few hours today
between
4 and 8 p.m they deliberated didn't
return a verdict but
yes this is a city very much on edge
people saying that they are anxious
about what might
happen next and that's really something
i'm hearing from people that i speak to
around the country saying that they
are fearful of what might happen if
there's not a guilty result
but also fearful that justice may not be
served
thank you very much good speech you will
catch up with you later in the program
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news